privacy-policy.md, before:

# ParentSquare Privacy Policy

### Overview

ParentSquare is a simple platform for communications between home and school. ParentSquare is designed for whole-school adoption and collaborative use by principal, admins, teachers, staff, parent leaders and parents at preK-12 schools. Users can share messages about school logistics and student classroom learning along with pictures and files, volunteer requests and class supply lists, calendar and directory information.

### Commitment to Your Privacy

ParentSquare understands that privacy is extremely important to users of our services and website, the district, school or organization that registers for our services ("School"), and the students, their parents and other users whose information we may access on behalf of a School.

### Changes to Our Privacy Policy

ParentSquare reserves the right to change this privacy policy. Any changes to this privacy policy will be posted to this page as soon as reasonably possible and a notice will be put up on our website. Use of the ParentSquare website constitutes consent to any privacy policy then in effect. Please make sure that you read the ParentSquare [Terms of Use](https://www.parentsquare.com/about/terms) to understand additional terms and conditions that apply to the use of our Web site. If you have any questions or comments concerning our privacy policy, please contact us at [support@parentsquare.com](mailto:support@parentsquare.com).

### Information Collection, Use and Protection

Our goal is to be transparent in our practices regarding collection and data usage.

#### 1. Information We Collect

We collect two types of information: personal information your School knowingly chooses to disclose that is collected on an individual basis, and website use information collected on an aggregate basis as you and others browse our website.

##### Information Your School Provides to Us

Student and user data is provided and controlled by your School. When your School chooses to use ParentSquare, the School provides us a limited amount of personal information. For a student, the School provided personal information includes student name, ID, gender, grade level, enrolled courses, other enrolled groups and extracurricular activities, and information about student’s parents / contacts: their name, address, email, phone number and communication language. For users other than parents / student contacts, such as staff members, the information may include their title at the School and courses taught at the School. The School may also choose to provide additional student information such as their English language learning status, enrollment in free and reduced lunch program, attendance records, lunch balances, bus routes, grades and assignments if the School is using the corresponding ParentSquare functionality.

ParentSquare complies with Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA") and all other applicable confidentiality and privacy laws and rules, and requires its employees, consultants, and subcontractors to similarly comply.

##### Additional Contact Information Your School May Provide to Us About Students

The School may choose to provide student with ParentSquare logins to communicate with students within ParentSquare. In such cases, we collect the login credentials for students provided to us by the School, which may include a student’s email address and cell phone number. Pursuant to Children’s Online Privacy and Protection Act (“COPPA"), ParentSquare relies on the School to obtain verifiable parental consent to provide our services to students under 13 years of age.

If we learn that we have collected personal information from a child under age 13 other than pursuant to the above, or if we learn that a child under 13 has provided us personal information beyond what we request from him or her, we will delete that information as quickly as possible after we have identified it.

If you have questions about modifying or deleting personal information of a student, please contact your School directly or you may also contact us at [support@parentsquare.com](mailto:support@parentsquare.com). We will get in touch with your School to honor your request.

##### Information You Provide to Us

You may choose to provide additional information about yourself in your user profile, such as your profession, talent, interests and abilities. All information you provide to us may be made accessible to other users in your School. This information is not shared with users outside of your School, but may be made available to your School's district office should they request it.

##### Information We Collect when You Interact With ParentSquare

In addition to the personal information you and your School provide to us, we also collect usage information as you interact with ParentSquare. Collecting this information allows us for more accurate reporting and helps us to improve our services. The following describes how we use this information:

###### a. Site Activity Information

We monitor some of the actions you perform on ParentSquare. For example, if you make a comment on a post, we both log the fact that you added a comment as well as store the actual comment itself.

###### b. Notification Activity Information

We monitor email delivery, text delivery, app downloads, and engagement through clicks in order to understand your interaction with our services and improve your experience with ParentSquare. We may include clear gifs in the HTML-based emails we send our Schools in order to track which emails are being opened and which links are being clicked on by recipients.

###### c. Access Device and Browser Information

When you access ParentSquare from a computer, mobile phone, or other device, we may collect information from that device such your browser type, location, and IP address. We also record which pages you visit, the date and time of visits, and the time spent at our website. This information is collected on an aggregate basis. None of this information is associated with you as an individual.

###### d. Cookie Information

We may send one or more cookies to be stored on your computer in order to personalize your experience with ParentSquare and make our services easier to use. A cookie is a small text file containing a string of alphanumeric characters that allows us to uniquely identify your browser and allows you to log in automatically whenever you return to ParentSquare. We also use cookies to identify and maintain your logged status as well as enhance your navigation through the website. You can remove or block cookies using the technical settings of your browser though you may not be able to do so on certain browsers or mobile devices. Note that disabling cookies may impact your ability to use our services fully, so we recommend that you leave them enabled for the quality of your experience.

#### 2. How We Use Information

Your privacy and your child's privacy is extremely important to us. The student data we collect is used for educational purposes at the discretion of your School only. We use the information we collect to provide a safe, efficient, and customized experience for our users. Here are some of ways we do that:

##### To Manage the Service

We use the information we collect to provide our personalized services and features to you and provide you with customer support. In addition we use the information we collect to analyze how you use the services and features so that we can measure and improve those services and features.

##### To Contact You

We may contact you with service-related announcements from time to time. This includes contacting you for any school related activities. We may include content you see on ParentSquare in the emails we send to you. We may also contact you in order to notify you about important changes to our services.

##### To Provide Relevant Information To Your School

We use the information we collect to report usage levels to your School. This allows your School to monitor how successful their posts are so that they can improve their use of ParentSquare.

#### 3. How We Share Information

##### What Can Other Users in ParentSquare See

Access to the School’s ParentSquare website and app is restricted to parents and staff at your School, and other users that the School may deem appropriate, e.g., Board Members. Parents can only view posts addressed to the entire School and to any groups or classes they or their child belongs to. Parents do not see posts for classes and private groups they do not belong to.

Pictures and files attached to posts on ParentSquare are never sent via email or text and are accessible to users only when logged in. This prevents picture access by users who receive forwarded emails from users at Schools. Parents are responsible for maintaining the security of their password.

Your contact information, i.e., your email, phone and address may be made available to other registered parents at your School as part of an online School Directory according to your School's discretion. This information is not shared outside of the School or with any third parties. By default, your email address is visible on your profile page to other parents at your School but not your phone or address. You have the option to adjust your settings to keep all your contact information (email, phone and address) hidden from other parents at your School. Your contact information will be visible to registered staff members at your School.

##### No Disclosure To Third Parties

ParentSquare uses the data received from the School for the sole purpose of delivering products and services to the School. We do not rent, trade, or sell or otherwise distribute your information to any third parties and will only disclose information when allowed by FERPA and required a) by applicable laws or government orders or b) to maintain and operate our service or c) when authorized by the School.

##### No Advertising

ParentSquare does not use student or user records or data collected for purposes of targeted advertising, and no student profile is built by ParentSquare for reasons other than furtherance of School purposes.

##### Corporate Restructuring

In the case of a corporate event such as a sale of assets, a future sale, or a merger of ParentSquare with another organization, we may transfer your personal information. However, we will provide you with notice and an opportunity to opt-out of the transfer of personally identifiable student data if the new organization does not have privacy policy at least as stringent than our own.

#### 4. How We Protect Information

##### Security

We take great measures in keeping your data safe and secure. ParentSquare uses secure infrastructure to ensure that student data is always encrypted during transfer and transmitted securely. Access to ParentSquare is authenticated through username / password. ParentSquare stores and protects your account information on a secured server behind a firewall. We utilize encryption / ecurity software to safeguard the confidentiality of personal information we collect.

If ParentSquare becomes aware of a security breach of its users’ personally identifiable information, ParentSquare will notify affected users as required by applicable laws and may post a notice on our services as required by applicable laws.

##### Information Hosted in the United States

ParentSquare and all of our data is hosted within the United States. Please note that if you use our service from a country or region with laws differing from the United States' laws governing the collection and production of data, you maybe be transferring your personal information outside of the jurisdiction of your region and to the United States. By using our service, you consent to the transfer, use and storage of your personal information in accordance with our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.

#### 5. Choices About Your Information

##### Managing Your Profile

You may review, update, and correct the information in your account by logging into ParentSquare. Your School may not allow you to update your account information directly in ParentSquare. In such event, an alternate School contact or instructions will be provided for you to update your ParentSquare contact information. You are able to adjust your notification settings within ParentSquare so that you receive instant text, instant email, or digest email, or you may opt out of ParentSquare communications and receive no notifications at all. If you choose not to receive notifications from ParentSquare this will not stop you from receiving emergency notifications, for example those regarding school closure, threats, etc.

##### Deactivating Your Account

If your child graduates from the School or leaves the School and you are no longer associated with the School, the School will deactivate your account. When an account is deactivated, it will be archived but no user will be able to see it. If the School chooses to maintain an alumni database, ParentSquare may retain that student's name, parents’ / guardians’ name, email, cell phone and address information as an archived account.

##### Deleting Your Account

A user account may only be deleted by the School. When an account is deleted, it is permanently deleted from ParentSquare. If you wish to delete your account, please send an email to your School representative. Removed and deleted information may persist in backup copies for up to ninety (90) days, but will not be available to others.

### How to Contact Us

If you have questions or concerns pertaining to your information, your registration, your account, or unsubscribing please contact your School directly. Otherwise if you have questions about this privacy policy or ParentSquare, you may contact us at [support@parentsquare.com](mailto:support@parentsquare.com).

Commit message:

social share addition to privacy policy

privacy-policy.md, after:

# ParentSquare Privacy Policy

### Overview

ParentSquare is a simple platform for communications between home and school. ParentSquare is designed for whole-school adoption and collaborative use by principal, admins, teachers, staff, parent leaders and parents at preK-12 schools. Users can share messages about school logistics and student classroom learning along with pictures and files, volunteer requests and class supply lists, calendar and directory information.

### Commitment to Your Privacy

ParentSquare understands that privacy is extremely important to users of our services and website, the district, school or organization that registers for our services ("School"), and the students, their parents and other users whose information we may access on behalf of a School.

### Changes to Our Privacy Policy

ParentSquare reserves the right to change this privacy policy. Any changes to this privacy policy will be posted to this page as soon as reasonably possible and a notice will be put up on our website. Use of the ParentSquare website constitutes consent to any privacy policy then in effect. Please make sure that you read the ParentSquare [Terms of Use](https://www.parentsquare.com/about/terms) to understand additional terms and conditions that apply to the use of our Web site. If you have any questions or comments concerning our privacy policy, please contact us at [support@parentsquare.com](mailto:support@parentsquare.com).

### Information Collection, Use and Protection

Our goal is to be transparent in our practices regarding collection and data usage.

#### 1. Information We Collect

We collect two types of information: personal information your School knowingly chooses to disclose that is collected on an individual basis, and website use information collected on an aggregate basis as you and others browse our website.

##### Information Your School Provides to Us

Student and user data is provided and controlled by your School. When your School chooses to use ParentSquare, the School provides us a limited amount of personal information. For a student, the School provided personal information includes student name, ID, gender, grade level, enrolled courses, other enrolled groups and extracurricular activities, and information about student’s parents / contacts: their name, address, email, phone number and communication language. For users other than parents / student contacts, such as staff members, the information may include their title at the School and courses taught at the School. The School may also choose to provide additional student information such as their English language learning status, enrollment in free and reduced lunch program, attendance records, lunch balances, bus routes, grades and assignments if the School is using the corresponding ParentSquare functionality.

ParentSquare complies with Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA") and all other applicable confidentiality and privacy laws and rules, and requires its employees, consultants, and subcontractors to similarly comply.

##### Additional Contact Information Your School May Provide to Us About Students

The School may choose to provide student with ParentSquare logins to communicate with students within ParentSquare. In such cases, we collect the login credentials for students provided to us by the School, which may include a student’s email address and cell phone number. Pursuant to Children’s Online Privacy and Protection Act (“COPPA"), ParentSquare relies on the School to obtain verifiable parental consent to provide our services to students under 13 years of age.

If we learn that we have collected personal information from a child under age 13 other than pursuant to the above, or if we learn that a child under 13 has provided us personal information beyond what we request from him or her, we will delete that information as quickly as possible after we have identified it.

If you have questions about modifying or deleting personal information of a student, please contact your School directly or you may also contact us at [support@parentsquare.com](mailto:support@parentsquare.com). We will get in touch with your School to honor your request.

##### Information You Provide to Us

You may choose to provide additional information about yourself in your user profile, such as your profession, talent, interests and abilities. All information you provide to us may be made accessible to other users in your School. This information is not shared with users outside of your School, but may be made available to your School's district office should they request it.

##### Information We Collect when You Interact With ParentSquare

In addition to the personal information you and your School provide to us, we also collect usage information as you interact with ParentSquare. Collecting this information allows us for more accurate reporting and helps us to improve our services. The following describes how we use this information:

###### a. Site Activity Information

We monitor some of the actions you perform on ParentSquare. For example, if you make a comment on a post, we both log the fact that you added a comment as well as store the actual comment itself.

###### b. Notification Activity Information

We monitor email delivery, text delivery, app downloads, and engagement through clicks in order to understand your interaction with our services and improve your experience with ParentSquare. We may include clear gifs in the HTML-based emails we send our Schools in order to track which emails are being opened and which links are being clicked on by recipients.

###### c. Access Device and Browser Information

When you access ParentSquare from a computer, mobile phone, or other device, we may collect information from that device such your browser type, location, and IP address. We also record which pages you visit, the date and time of visits, and the time spent at our website. This information is collected on an aggregate basis. None of this information is associated with you as an individual.

###### d. Cookie Information

We may send one or more cookies to be stored on your computer in order to personalize your experience with ParentSquare and make our services easier to use. A cookie is a small text file containing a string of alphanumeric characters that allows us to uniquely identify your browser and allows you to log in automatically whenever you return to ParentSquare. We also use cookies to identify and maintain your logged status as well as enhance your navigation through the website. You can remove or block cookies using the technical settings of your browser though you may not be able to do so on certain browsers or mobile devices. Note that disabling cookies may impact your ability to use our services fully, so we recommend that you leave them enabled for the quality of your experience.

#### 2. How We Use Information

Your privacy and your child's privacy is extremely important to us. The student data we collect is used for educational purposes at the discretion of your School only. We use the information we collect to provide a safe, efficient, and customized experience for our users. Here are some of ways we do that:

##### To Manage the Service

We use the information we collect to provide our personalized services and features to you and provide you with customer support. In addition we use the information we collect to analyze how you use the services and features so that we can measure and improve those services and features.

##### To Contact You

We may contact you with service-related announcements from time to time. This includes contacting you for any school related activities. We may include content you see on ParentSquare in the emails we send to you. We may also contact you in order to notify you about important changes to our services.

##### To Provide Relevant Information To Your School

We use the information we collect to report usage levels to your School. This allows your School to monitor how successful their posts are so that they can improve their use of ParentSquare.

#### 3. How We Share Information

##### What Can Other Users in ParentSquare See

Access to the School’s ParentSquare website and app is restricted to parents and staff at your School, and other users that the School may deem appropriate, e.g., Board Members. Parents can only view posts addressed to the entire School and to any groups or classes they or their child belongs to. Parents do not see posts for classes and private groups they do not belong to.

Pictures and files attached to posts on ParentSquare are never sent via email or text and are accessible to users only when logged in. This prevents picture access by users who receive forwarded emails from users at Schools. Parents are responsible for maintaining the security of their password.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, your School may choose to share some ParentSquare posts and associated pictures on social websites, such as Twitter and Facebook.  ParentSquare will require your School to confirm that it has prior permission from parents before doing so.  Sharing posts and pictures on social website will make the posts and pictures viewable by users outside of ParentSquare, and ParentSquare’s privacy policy will no longer apply to those posts and pictures.  All such posts will be clearly marked so ParentSquare users can know that those posts are shared via social networks.

Your contact information, i.e., your email, phone and address may be made available to other registered parents at your School as part of an online School Directory according to your School's discretion. This information is not shared outside of the School or with any third parties. By default, your email address is visible on your profile page to other parents at your School but not your phone or address. You have the option to adjust your settings to keep all your contact information (email, phone and address) hidden from other parents at your School. Your contact information will be visible to registered staff members at your School.

##### No Disclosure To Third Parties

ParentSquare uses the data received from the School for the sole purpose of delivering products and services to the School. We do not rent, trade, or sell or otherwise distribute your information to any third parties and will only disclose information when allowed by FERPA and required a) by applicable laws or government orders or b) to maintain and operate our service or c) when authorized by the School.

##### No Advertising

ParentSquare does not use student or user records or data collected for purposes of targeted advertising, and no student profile is built by ParentSquare for reasons other than furtherance of School purposes.

##### Corporate Restructuring

In the case of a corporate event such as a sale of assets, a future sale, or a merger of ParentSquare with another organization, we may transfer your personal information. However, we will provide you with notice and an opportunity to opt-out of the transfer of personally identifiable student data if the new organization does not have privacy policy at least as stringent than our own.

#### 4. How We Protect Information

##### Security

We take great measures in keeping your data safe and secure. ParentSquare uses secure infrastructure to ensure that student data is always encrypted during transfer and transmitted securely. Access to ParentSquare is authenticated through username / password. ParentSquare stores and protects your account information on a secured server behind a firewall. We utilize encryption / ecurity software to safeguard the confidentiality of personal information we collect.

If ParentSquare becomes aware of a security breach of its users’ personally identifiable information, ParentSquare will notify affected users as required by applicable laws and may post a notice on our services as required by applicable laws.

##### Information Hosted in the United States

ParentSquare and all of our data is hosted within the United States. Please note that if you use our service from a country or region with laws differing from the United States' laws governing the collection and production of data, you maybe be transferring your personal information outside of the jurisdiction of your region and to the United States. By using our service, you consent to the transfer, use and storage of your personal information in accordance with our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.

#### 5. Choices About Your Information

##### Managing Your Profile

You may review, update, and correct the information in your account by logging into ParentSquare. Your School may not allow you to update your account information directly in ParentSquare. In such event, an alternate School contact or instructions will be provided for you to update your ParentSquare contact information. You are able to adjust your notification settings within ParentSquare so that you receive instant text, instant email, or digest email, or you may opt out of ParentSquare communications and receive no notifications at all. If you choose not to receive notifications from ParentSquare this will not stop you from receiving emergency notifications, for example those regarding school closure, threats, etc.

##### Deactivating Your Account

If your child graduates from the School or leaves the School and you are no longer associated with the School, the School will deactivate your account. When an account is deactivated, it will be archived but no user will be able to see it. If the School chooses to maintain an alumni database, ParentSquare may retain that student's name, student's grade level, parents’ / guardians’ name, email, cell phone and address information as an archived account.

##### Deleting Your Account

A user account may only be deleted by the School. When an account is deleted, it is permanently deleted from ParentSquare. If you wish to delete your account, please send an email to your School representative. Removed and deleted information may persist in backup copies for up to ninety (90) days, but will not be available to others.

### How to Contact Us

If you have questions or concerns pertaining to your information, your registration, your account, or unsubscribing please contact your School directly. Otherwise if you have questions about this privacy policy or ParentSquare, you may contact us at [support@parentsquare.com](mailto:support@parentsquare.com).
